# [All things client and mobile app development with .NET MAUI | BRK204](https://youtu.be/-4SJvzGNZ_M?si=-atwBwkVvoyW4WCs)

# Names

- Maddy Montaquila
- David Ortinau
  
# [PART 1](https://youtu.be/-4SJvzGNZ_M?t=310)

(09:14) Thank you to all of our contributors. If you are a contributor in the room, would you stand up? MADDY MONTAQUILA: If you maintain any packages, library. Morton? DAVID ORTINAU: You write code... MADDY MONTAQUILA: You guys stand up. DAVID ORTINAU: Yeah some contributors there. Give them a hand. MADDY MONTAQUILA: Thank you.

(09:35) Everyone is tired. DAVID ORTINAU: Everyone is tired. MADDY MONTAQUILA: That's okay. DAVID ORTINAU: Well, you've been drinking from the fire hose this week. A lot of information. You've been drinking it up into the late hours of the evening. MADDY MONTAQUILA: Yeah. DAVID ORTINAU: There's a couple of things.

(09:48) It wasn't the best joke of the day. Maddy, tell us about what's been happening with .NET7 and Visual Studio. MADDY MONTAQUILA: Well, things are fast, so that's cool. We like speed, we like things to be faster, and we like things to be smaller and those were two of the key numbers we looked at when. NET 7 went out.


# PART 2
(10:05) We wanted to see how
fast our app loaded up, how fast pages rendered and drew themselves
on the screen, and then how big your
app actually was. These are all things we
measure all the time. We'll talk a bit
about .NET8 later. But this is something we're always measuring
and we make sure the numbers are always going in

(10:24) the correct direction with
every release and we try not to let them go the wrong
direction. That's the goal. It's not just in the SDK. We've done a bunch of work
inside of Visual Studio to make things faster
and more stable. Little bit less janky. We like to say less jank. Just in general, folks using

(10:42) Pair to Mac probably
already noticed our success rate has gone up over 30 percent,
which is amazing. I think two Visual
Studio releases, which is pretty good. First launch success first build success of those
things are all up. We take a lot of time making
sure we're getting started, story is really smooth
so that when you have

(11:00) new developers join your team
and get started with Maui, they have a good experience. What's going on with Desktop? DAVID ORTINAU:
Let's cover a little bit of what we have been doing or what we have
already shipped in .NET 7. If you're not already familiar
with some of these things, this will be new to you,
but let's recap real

(11:18) quick so that
everybody's up to speed. In .NET 7, we did a very short six months after we shipped .NET 6 at
Build last year. Of course, there really
wasn't a whole lot of time to jam a bunch of
features in there. But a few things did get
put in such as tool tips. Most of these things are Desktop focused as Maddy just mentioned.

(11:41) We have a few more gaps
there as compared to mobile, which has been around, of course, for much longer. You can just annotate with an attached property if you
didn't know when you do something like
TooltipProperties.Text on top of a button
or anything else. It's called an attached
property. Everybody knew

(11:57) that. Nobody knew that? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yeah. DAVID ORTINAU:
I can actually see you. You can raise your hands. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
He knew it. That's good. DAVID ORTINAU:
Pointer hovers. You need to be able to mouse over something
and see it change. Of course, from a UX perspective, that's
super important.

(12:17) If you don't see
that color change or you don't see
your cursor change, you're going to be like,
is it interactive, is it not interactive?
I don't know. It's, of course, not something that you typically deal with on a mobile phone
unless you've tried hovering over your phone with your finger to see what happens.

(12:31) MADDY MONTAQUILA:
That's the next iPhone, didn't you hear? DAVID ORTINAU:
It works on my car. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Really. DAVID ORTINAU:
I can get really close to it. Anybody else, your car? No? Pointer hovers. Very cool. Context menus, you can right-click
on things now, Right-click in and of
itself is also a new thing.

(12:48) Of course, it's called a
secondary click. What? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
You were on the side. DAVID ORTINAU:
I wasn't on the slide? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
No. DAVID ORTINAU:
Well, I was getting there. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Okay. DAVID ORTINAU:
You see what I'm dealing with up here? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
We're getting there.

(13:05) Keep on track, we have 30 minutes left. DAVID ORTINAU:
I added more slides. You heard that part? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yes. This morning. DAVID ORTINAU:
Right-click a lot more things like that you can do. What's also been very
exciting this past period of time is seeing many
of our existing, and some new component
vendors come

(13:25) online with controls
that you can use. I know that Syncfusion has
been around this week. I think GrapeCity
was also around. I saw GrapeCity T-shirts. I didn't actually figure
out where their booth was. But that's awesome. I wanted to give you
a few highlights. I reached out to them
recently and said,

(13:44) how's it been going, but also give me some
highlights. What's new? I've got some news for you. DevExpress has been
using .NET MAUI since before we GA'd and
building controls. They're all free.
Who likes free? Thank you. They're
raising their hands now. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
There we go. DAVID ORTINAU:
I just had to say free.

(14:04) MADDY MONTAQUILA:
All I had to do was move a slide for you, cause some trouble,
and we're good. DAVID ORTINAU:
You just had to jump in and take credit. Some really sweet controls here, beautiful stuff, DataGrid, CollectionView,
just to name a few. Check those out, Google the DevExpress or Bing it or
talk to Bing Chat and say,

(14:22) Dear Bing Chat, what controls does
DevExpress have? Has anybody ever had Bing
Chat reject your question? Maybe I'm just asking
pointed questions. In addition to that, I was
talking to the guys from UXDivers and they have made some pretty interesting
updates to Grial Kit. I think we've all
really loved seeing

(14:45) the Grial Kit stuff.
It looks great. But some of the pain
points are you would have to go to their web portal, you'd have to pay for
a one-app license, there really wasn't a free tier. Then it was like it
builds the solution, you download it and then it's hard to iterate on your app. Well, now, they're
shipping free templates.

(15:02) I said free, that's
the part where you. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Free. DAVID ORTINAU:
I thought that was the cue everytime I say free. Not only that, but they
are now working on and are about to preview a
extension for Visual Studio, whereby you can just go grab templates, grab
individual controls, compose them as you want to

(15:25) all while working
in your solution, and then bring those in. So it's like a generator
built into Visual Studio. You don't have to go
back to a website. You don't have to reload a whole solution or
anything like that. And they have this really
cool Grial Studio widget on the side for picking
font icons.

(15:43) They've got a whole
bunch of icons, some that they've
made themselves, some from some popular fonts
that you're familiar with. Check that out, grab
that bitly down there, go sign up for that preview
and check that out. Of course progress Telerik
has been on board forever. Sands of MAUI, we love. Sam Bassoo is always given us

(16:03) a beautiful roundup of all the Twitter news,
the blogs, etc. Tons of controls. Too many to name. I just give you the list here. Some of the new stuff that
they're working on is infusing some AI
into their controls. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
I haven't heard that word this week. DAVID ORTINAU:
No. Did you just drink?

(16:23) MADDY MONTAQUILA:
It's water people. DAVID ORTINAU:
That's some cool staff continue to follow that and check that out. Of course I mentioned
Syncfusion has been around. They have gorgeous Controls. They use the Maui
graphics library to render a lot of this stuff. You get some very beautiful
things that render pixel

(16:43) by pixel perfect across
all the platforms. Also I know that they
have a free tier. They also have project templates
and they have built-in type converters who doesn't love a bunch of type converters. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
It's true. DAVID ORTINAU:
Especially if you're a XAML developer. New to the game is Exceed.

(17:03) They're new to this.
They have been around a long time with WPF. Anybody used a WPF Exceed control in your applications?
I saw a few hands. Cool. Check these out if
you've been looking for that button that you
can throw any content you want to in it.
They got that. I checked it out.
It's really sweet,

(17:25) very easy to use does
what it says on the box. Linked to their GitHub, it is on NuGet and also
what's the keyword? Free. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Free. DAVID ORTINAU:
That's really exciting. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
We have a lot that's come out .NET 8 it's coming in hot too,
which is very exciting. DAVID ORTINAU:
It's a big year.

(17:50) MADDY MONTAQUILA:
The previews are out, we're in preview. DAVID ORTINAU:
Preview 3 is shifted, I think preview 4 is coming. No, no Preview 4 is out,
Preview 5 is coming. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
A lot of them, we're somewhere in the middle between one and
release candidate. Definitely grab them.
There's a lot going on.

(18:02) These are just some
of the highlights, obviously stability, like we
mentioned at the beginning, that's our number one thing, making sure all of
the numbers we can track are moving in
the correct direction. That's important. We want the numbers to be green. Workloads. We are working on something called .Net
Workload Clean,

(18:20) which if that means
something to you, you're going to be very excited. If it doesn't, don't
worry about it. We hope you never
have to use it. But better management of .NET workloads and also
being able to pull MAUI nightly or pre-release builds and as NuGet packages
straight from our GitHub, you don't have to do
anything interesting there.

(18:37) Desktop, Dave will
dive more into some more great
navigation things we're doing and keyboard
things we're doing. Of course Blazor Hybrid. We have the new Hybrid WebView, which is not actually
just Blazor Hybrid. It is hybrid hybrid
where you can put React Angular, plain
old JavaScript. I don't know why you do that
right into a web view.

(18:56) Dave had a lightening
demo of that yesterday that I believe
will be uploaded. DAVID ORTINAU:
There is already an on-demand because I did the prerecord from home without the audience
I was actually on time. Less jokes when you're just
in a room by yourself. Actually when I was putting together the demo for yesterday,

(19:16) I could not remember for the life of me how to
write JavaScript. It has been awhile. I used Copilot. Copilot bailed me out. It was fantastic. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
It's really funny to watch actually. DAVID ORTINAU:
She witnessed it. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
I just stared at him typing for like 20 minutes at
breakfast at a restaurant.

(19:32) DAVID ORTINAU:
Well, I had had a lot of information that I drank
in the night before. The brain wasn't
working quite so well, but Copilot seemed
to be just fine. MADDY MONTAGQUILA:
Wow, that's good. Finally, native always looking to make things in .NET more unified. Everything plays together nicely in the sandbox, I like to say.

(19:56) So native AoT is part of .NET. If you have AoT apps existing, they're probably running on a different part of
the .NET runtimes, move back into the home there. Also a lot of library
just sharing on here. We have .NET to
Objective-C and Swift. But we're also
working on things to make that go the
other direction,

# PART 3
(20:16) which I think you
will talk about. Do I? Yes I do. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yes you do. You added that one this morning. DAVID ORTINAU:
I did add that one this morning. The native libraries thing. I'm sure that we'll
have some blogs and it'll get
documented eventually, but it's really cool. If anybody remembers the
old embedonator experiment

(20:31) from back in Xamarin days, you can take your .NET
code and you can package it up as
a native library and ship it to Objecve-C
Swift Java Kotlin developers and have them use it. Be on the lookout for that if that's something that
sounds interesting to you. The native AoT is going to
be available as an option.

(20:49) MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Correct. DAVID ORTINAU:
In .NET8. You can opt into that and see if how that compares to the
AoT that we have today. But so far, all indications
from our benchmarks, faster and smaller.
Which is really nice. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
I like to see. DAVID ORTINAU:
You mentioned at the top and

(21:09) I wanted to circle back to it because it's worth
double-clicking on. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Oh, gosh. DAVID ORTINAU:
We'll circle back. We'll double-click. Zoom in on it. What
are some others? Stability. Net 8 for
us really is all about stability in our tooling
and especially in the SDK. I was back and forth on

(21:33) another slide that I could
add, but I'll just talk to it. We're fully aware
that there are gaps and there are a lot of issues
that many of us run into. As Rod mentioned, they have used extensively the handler architecture
to quickly work around things which super-happy that the architecture supports
that but that's not the goal.

(21:51) The goal is that you
don't really ever need to use that until you want to. Knocking down the high-impact
issues is the main goal. Knocking down the number of
issues is not the main goal. If we wanted to do that, we'll
just close all the issues. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
That's a good point actually. DAVID ORTINAU: That's
how you burn down to zero.
(22:09) MADDY MONTAQUILA:

I'll make a call. DAVID ORTINAU:
But what we do is we look at the number of reactions, the comments, who's commenting, what the actual severity of the issue is when we triage it, etc, and that gives
us an impact score. That impact score is unfortunately not something
that's easy for us to

(22:27) surface visibly on GitHub but we do have that in our internal
tool that consumes GitHub. Then we prioritize those issues. You can see what those
issues are by going to the GitHub repository
and looking at our project board for
the upcoming work. As that work is completed, that which could be
backported to Net 7 will be.

(22:45) However, the longer we get in
the Net 7 closer to Net 8, the likelihood of those things
being backported reduces. Check out those Net
8 previews, please, as soon as you can, .NET
new install MAUI. Let's talk a little
bit about some of the features that are coming. There are a handful. Accelerators, as Maddy said,

(23:09) why is this called
an accelerator? Probably some WPF reason. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
That's actually a good reason. DAVID ORTINAU: Somebody
probably like Morgan has a history that he can
tell us all about this. He's not sitting
where he used to. Morgan, where did you go? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
He moved over so we couldn't

(23:23) make jokes about him. It was smart. DAVID ORTINAU:
Come on. I need to heckle the crowd. It's reverse heckling. Accelerators, what
are they? They're shortcuts
so that you can add them to any of
your menu items. If you want to trigger a
menu item from a Control S, Control V, you can do that now. We have a pull
request up for it.

(23:41) Is not yet merged, but you can track that and see that coming to a
desktop near you. This is what you mentioned before about going
the other direction. For the longest time, if you want to use any kind of a native library, a CocoaPod, some framework, a Java library, etc, you would need to create
a .NET binding for that.

(24:03) Who has created a .NET binding
before to a native library? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Couple sorry souls in the back there. DAVID ORTINAU:
Who would raise your hand and say, "I absolutely love
creating bindings, I would do it all day, every day of my life." For the record, nobody
raised their hand. What can we do to improve this?

(24:23) It's hard enough
for us to do it. We know that it's a high bar
for any of you to do it. Any developers in general, not at all a knock
on your competence. You are awesome developers. But what can we do
to make this easier? We have this concept of a platform channel that
we are iterating on. It allows you to
essentially bring

(24:42) that native library to your solution but keep
it in the native space. Yes, that means you would still have the Android tooling, you would still have
the Xcode tooling and you would use those. But how can we make it
easier for you to interact from the .NET side and
from the native side? This is where Platform
Channels comes in.

(25:02) You can see here on the screen, I've got some Java code. This is a very basic example. I'm going to pass in some
texts back and forth. I have this method
where I'm going to handle messages from .NET. This is a method
you would control. The channel is what
we would provide. The methods that you want to
create are in your control,

(25:24) you just make sure that
they're accessible. Then on the .NET side, you instantiate your channel, you get or create that
channel and you call it. Here, I'm obviously just passing some very simple things, some text, and a method name, but you could imagine
that you could send complex objects too, as long as the channel

(25:47) knows how to marshal those
types and everything. We think that this
is going to really lower the bar for doing this. It's not the only concept we
have to address this space, but I think that we would agree it's probably
the most promising. There is a repository up on
GitHub where we're starting this work and then
we'll move it into

(26:06) a more public place where
you can check that out. I guess my request
to you would be bring your libraries
to us and say, hey, here's a library I
need to be able to use. The binding is old, I need to replace it or
do something with it and we would love to use that as an example
for us to build upon it.

(26:23) Keyboard improvements. Who has ever had the
keyboard pop up over your entry field and
nobody can get to it? Well, wouldn't you know
we've got a solution. It's called fixing the bugs. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Wow. That's good. DAVID ORTINAU:
You like that? Definitely, we know this has been a problem. What you see on the first
thing that you saw there was

(26:49) an epic fail from the
original MAUI sample. Things are not
exactly much better in the Xamarin form
sample, but it is better. Then now we have
the super-duper, newper-duper, cool MAUI sample. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
That works. DAVID ORTINAU:
TJ Lambert on the iOS team came over and helped
out the MAUI team and

(27:07) spent several sprints working
deep in the bowels of this, both for iOS and
for Android bowels. That made you giggle?
Bowels. Wow. We just went to a blank screen.
Doesn't matter. Look forward to that. Is there anything you need to
do to implement this? You just need to update
to the latest version of .NET MAUI once it
ships and use it.

(27:35) Nothing that you would
need to be able to do. I love the fact that it properly moves between the first
name and the middle name, the side-by-side stuff as
well as the vertical stuff. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
It's so nice. DAVID ORTINAU:
There are ways for you to then more finely control your tabbing index
and things like

(27:51) that using semantic properties. Some of that is in the
Community Toolkit. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Well, this is 2023 and we have to talk about
Copilot or we'll get fired. No, I'm just kidding.
We will not. DAVID ORTINAU:
I didn't get that memo. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
We have mentioned a few times though, I know a lot of you
are able to access now

(28:08) the Copilot chat from
being a build attendee. It is really good. Admittedly, it does not
do great with XAML, which is fine because I also
don't do great with XAML, so we can be bad
with XAML together. That's all good. But
the C-sharp stuff I've been using
has been amazing. It's teaching day of JavaScript
in a Blazor hybrid app,

(28:28) which is pretty cool, which doesn't have
any Blazor in it. DAVID ORTINAU:
Correct. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
I've been using it to make my ViewModels not awful
because I'll be like, "Why isn't this showing up?" It will be like "You
absolute dumb dumb.'' DAVID ORTINAU:
It does not. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
It should be

(28:46) observable and I'm like, ''Oh my gosh, okay.'' But it's really cool.
We've been liking it a lot and using it and you can get the
chat preview somehow. DAVID ORTINAU:
Have we figured out how to tell Copilot to speak in
the voice of Dan Roth? Wouldn't that be sweet?
Who would use that? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
I would use that.

(29:04) It's a very soothing, good voice. DAVID ORTINAU:
Yes. You understand pretty much everything he
says is very clear. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
I like that. GitHub Copilot
in Visual Studio. GitHub Copilot chat, I believe for Visual
Studio 2022 is the extension name.
Lots of words there. DAVID ORTINAU:
We can get this today.

(29:23) MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yes. As a Build attendee, either some way for you
to go magically get it. DAVID ORTINAU:
Some way magically get it. Does anybody know
that magical way? MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yes. No, nobody does. Google it. DAVID ORTINAU:
One person does? You know? [AUDIENCE SPEAKER] Make sure GitHub account handle links to

(29:45) your registration email for Build and then things will
start to work for you. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
You can add multiple GitHub emails you
don't have to change it. DAVID ORTINAU:
You'll be standing outside the door after the session. Everybody can go talk to you. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Please, bring your phone up like this.

(29:59) Can you help me, sir? I need Copilot. This is cool. It has been fun. DAVID ORTINAU:
Yes. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
What else is going on? DAVID ORTINAU:
We alluded to the session about the hybrid web view and with .NET 6 we shipped the BlazorWebView and has
been very well received. We see really about a third
of all new users coming to

# PART 4
(30:22) MAUI doing so with Blazor Hybrid templates and
using that functionality. Like I said, a lot of people
that are using MAUI are actually not Xamarin upgrades. We do see a significant
amount of that as well, but a lot of the new stuff is happening in this
space, which is cool. We talked to a lot of
customers, of course,

(30:45) that's what we do, and developers in general, and when we show them
the BlazorWebView, there's many times where
they say that's awesome, but we actually don't
use Blazor yet. We have a ton of React code, can we do the same
thing or similar? That's where this comes from. Eilon Lipton who works on the MAUI team and for
years worked on asp.net.

(31:11) I think at some point
he might have been on the compiler team really. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
He's done it all. He's cool. DAVID ORTINAU:
He's been here a long time, he's got a lot of crystals. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yes. DAVID ORTINAU:
You get crystals at certain monumental points
of your career. He took a lot

(31:26) of the foundational work
that he had done with the BlazorWebView and then enabled it for
Angular and React. Unsurprisingly, as a developer with his
experience in C-sharp and .NET, he doesn't really have a lot of Angular and React
experience, nor do I. Who in here does?
We're looking for you. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Couple.

(31:50) Thank you for
showing yourselves. DAVID ORTINAU:
We want you to check this out, see how it might
be useful to you, and show us like, "Hey, in my React app, it would be great if we could adopt some
of these patterns. It would make it easier to integrate some of those things." It's experimental for now.

(32:06) The idea being, of course, you can interact back and
forth between the JavaScript. Many of us has probably
already written a hybrid web view with some JavaScript bridging
at one point or another, but this will be a more
official, seamless way for you to do that and of
course, we will support it. But let us know. Check
out that GitHub link.

(32:23) Well, aka.MS at the top there will take you to a GitHub and you can provide
us with information. It's currently on
Eilon's private repo. Don't that freak you out. We will be moving things to a more public
repo along with some of the other experimental
things that we have lurking around
like little thing,

(32:43) that's a Linux backend
and then a WPF backend. Is that interesting to anybody? Should we share that stuff on? Nobody cares. It's free. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
There you go. You did your job. DAVID ORTINAU:
Just had to throw free out there. We got a few minutes left. Let's get into some
tactical things here.

(33:06) We do have official
support policy. Some of that support is free, some of it you can pay for. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yeah. But there's free. DAVID ORTINAU:
There is free. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Thank you. DAVID ORTINAU:
Sweet. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Not the same effect when I say it. It's okay. DAVID ORTINAU:
We do ship,

(33:23) of course with .NET. We are part of.NET,
which is awesome. We have the confidence
that we have the investment from
all the powers that we can continue forward and support you
and your endeavors. When you're aligning a roadmap, you want to look at
something like this. We do ship every year and then
for six months after that,

(33:41) we support that release. For example, .NET 6, we are now six months past
the .net 7 release, so it's actually no longer
supported officially. We will no longer be shipping service releases
for .NET 6 MAUI. NET 6 itself, the underlying
SDK and runtime of course, is still a long-term
service supported

(34:03) release and you'll be able to
use that for the duration. But MAUI has dependencies. We depend upon Xcode, we will depend upon
Android Developer tools. As those things ship, we need to make sure that we can ship rapidly on top of them. By the time that they
go public in GA, you will always have bits from us that you
can depend upon.

(34:25) That's important to know. The early betas, it does take us some time
to create those bindings and we will ship them as
soon as we possibly can. But once RC1, RC2, gold master, or whatever they call it, ships, then you
can get the bits. How do you get the bits? You can always get them
off of our GitHub,

(34:44) off of our Azure Pipelines. Then once we are able to
hitch a train, hop a train, catch a train, individual studio for that release cycle,
then you will get it. You may see those releases
come perhaps a week or two after the release
in Visual Studio, but that doesn't mean that
the bits aren't available.

(35:04) You can always get
them on GitHub. What does this mean for Xamarin? Well, Xamarin is
end-of-support May 1st, 2024. Why May? Why so soon? May 1st, 2024 is the first day on
which Apple will no longer accept updates to apps
built with Xcode 14, and that is the version of iOS and Xcode
that Xamarin uses.

(35:31) We need everybody
to upgrade to MAUI. You need to upgrade to MAUI. Of course, when I
say MAUI, that's not just the cross platform bits, if you have a Xamarin
Android app or Xamarin iOS app, upgrade. We've seen tons of
libraries in the community. I already showed the
component vendors have released their stuff.

(35:54) We have done some
work to provide compatibility packages
for the likes of FFImage, which is a super
popular library. Intune now has support for .NET 6 and above for iOS and Android. App Center has released
packages that are compatible, including recently UI
test for iOS and Android. If you have a suite of UI tests

(36:17) in your Xamarin applications
and you're like, I can't run them, now
you can run them. At least for your
migration path, that is a good story for
you to move forward. We have more information on
how you can get started with MAUI and upgrading
your applications from my good coworker. MADDY MONTAQUILA:

(36:38) Everything, the
link to the GitHub, the link to all the downloading
stuff is dot.net/maui. DAVID ORTINAU:
Dot.net. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Dot.net. The easiest way if you don't have MAUI already, just download Visual Studio and click off the box
that says MAUI. It's got this purple thing
with like four squares,

(36:53) it's supposed to be like the
four platforms all coming together, symbolic or something. One of the things that
we didn't get into in this talk because we
only have 45 minutes, and if you gave me and Dave
all the time in the world, we would talk for three hours, is all of the tooling stuff
that exists in Visual Studio,

(37:06) including the rapid UI iterating things we have so
that the GIF or GIF. GIF up here, that's
the poll, GIF or GIF. Is ever someone hot
reloading their app, editing their XAML and
using what we call the live preview to inspect their UI, see exactly where it's being rendered with your actual data. Click on that and go to where
in the source it's defined.

(37:31) Very cool things. If you're a Windows user, you can still develop iOS apps. Even if you don't have a Mac, you can just plug your iPhone in and do a lot of
debugging that way. You still need a Mac
to ship to the store, which is why we give you
the pair to Mac capability, so you can test it against all the different simulators

(37:50) and things that you
get with Xcode. For those of you
who are on Xamarin, and if Xamarin means
nothing to you, good. That's really good. Welcome. It's a good time here. We don't need to give
you the history lesson. If Xamarin does mean
something to you, you can go check out
the .NET upgrade assistant.

(38:08) It is an assistant. This is the thing we have
to say every time it will not magically upgrade
your project. Turns out all of you
write code differently. DAVID ORTINAU:
Shocking. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Who would've thought? Oh my goodness. It's very hard to
predict perfectly, exactly what we should do to upgrade you 100 percent to MAUI.

(38:27) But Xamarin to MAUI
is not a rewrite. All of the XAML for the
most part stays the same. There's some things
we obsoleted, somethings we made better. It's really about replacing your NuGets with
compatible versions, changing your project files, and then of course
fixing your name spaces, so it says Microsoft.maui,

(38:43) which is cool in some
base types and stuff. We made an alias. There are four people
on that alias and they are in this room right now, and it is completely
unmoderated. We have done no preparation for the influx of emails
we started to get. That is my fault. It is
maui-upgrades@Microsoft.com. What we're hoping
for is that this is

(39:03) your panic line or like I did
this thing and it worked. Oh my gosh, I want
to tell someone. Send us your stories,
trials, tribulations, packages that you're like help, no one is maintaining
this anymore. What's a good replacement? Look, I did this upgrade and it took me five minutes
because you guys are

(39:22) amazing and I love you and
here's a Starbucks gift card. Actually, no. None of them like Starbucks, so that's okay. Only me. I'll take it. All of those things
send the email, like I said, it's unmoderated, so there's a chance that we miss it. Feel
free to ping it. We're all going to be taking
looks and keep an eye on it

(39:39) and just know that
that is one of the many ways to get in
touch with the .NET team. That was a good segue. I didn't even plan that. We're getting there.
We're getting to the end. Thank you so much. Follow .NET all over the
place, even TikTok, and they now have charts
that they report to us on the TikTok follower growth of

(40:01) the .NET TikTok,
which is amazing. Lots of different ways.
One thing that we added to the slide too is
the .NET discord. You can just join it. It's primarily for library
and package maintainers. It's mostly so you
can go in and ask the team nitty-gritty
architecture questions. People are not really taking

(40:20) bug reports or anything there, that's what GitHub is for. DAVID ORTINAU:
Yeah, not bug reports, but let's say that you for example, do run into something
that's blocking your application and you don't see a fix coming
and you're like, how do I work around this? I hear about this handler
architecture thing.

(40:33) How do I use that to
address my issue? Come to Discord and engage
with the engineering team. It is the core
engineering team for MAUI that spends time in there. The Android and
iOS team are also there on occasion and there's
a whole bunch of channels, Avalonia and Uno, I believe maybe even have
channels in there.

(40:48) MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yeah. DAVID ORTINAU:
You can get a support and talk to people one to one, so use it. Again, please be considerate. It's not where you
file your issues, those need to go to GitHub. But if you're asking an architectural
decision saying, hey, I'm trying to address this
issue in my code base,

(41:05) how could I work around it? You're going to get
good answers there. If you think that I
know much about coding, it all comes from me just
having these guys on Teams and wonderful team
of engineers to go after. MADDY MONTAQUILA:
Yeah. Definitely we are an open book
and like I said, we are going to be hanging
out after in the hallway,

(41:24) so please come ask us questions. Please make sure you
pop them in the Pubble and we can see those after, I think we can export it. We'll try and address whatever
we miss maybe with a blog. We want to do a
birthday blog for MAUI, I think that would be fun. Also if you want to do the
Microsoft Learn course,

(41:39) it's right there. Very cool. Thank you, everybody. I hope you had a great Build, and it has been so great
to see you. Thanks.